[Music]
[Applause]
Eat quickly, then go to
school, the sun is rising, I have to carry an
umbrella, after school I'll come home, that's
really
[Music]
delicious
Hey, clothes are messy, hair is all tangled up, sleepy, so
late, hurry up, my child. I love
you, Mom. When I was little, I didn't understand. When I was little,
I was really naive. Oh, look at the green, the rice and
soup are already cold. Mom's urging made me angry. I didn't expect the
summer rains to come, the
leaves are all tangled up. My childhood, Mom carried me all autumn. [Music] [
Music]
[Music] Hey, go to school, the sun is rising, I have to carry an umbrella, after school I
'll come home, that's really [Music] delicious. Hehehe, hehehe, clothes are messy, hair is all tangled up. Sleepy, so late, hurry up, my child. I love you, Mom. When I was little, I didn't understand. When I was little, I was
really
naive. Oh, look at the green, the rice and soup are all tangled up. I didn't expect
Mom's urging, hurry up! My child loves the summer rains to come, the
leaves are all tangled up. My childhood, Mom carried me all autumn. [Music] [Music] [Music] Hey, go to school, the sun is rising, I have to carry an umbrella, after school I'll come home, that's really [Music] delicious. Hehehe, hehehe, clothes are messy, hair is all tangled up. Sleepy, so late, wake up, my child. I love you, Mom. When I was little, I didn't understand. When I was little, I was
really naive. Oh, look at the green, the
rice and soup are all tangled up. I didn't expect Mom's urging, hurry
up! My child loves the summer rains to come, the leaves are all tangled up. My childhood, Mom carried me
all autumn.
Autumn sky, my steps are weary, my lips are chapped. Russia tears apart
life, my shadow slips. Mother, I love a whole
sky of peace, Mother, I listen more to your
words, eat quickly, then go to school. When the sun
rises, I need to hold an umbrella. My steps are weary, every fall tears apart life, the shadow of Mother. A whole sky of peace, eat quickly, then go to school. When the sun rises, I must hold an umbrella. I learn numbers, then come home, thanks to the code, I am truly a child. [
Applause] [
Music]
[Music]
Rice spills all over the house. Dad holds a pen and runs after the cat, holding its
tail, it meows.
Dad follows, kha kha. My child is so good.
This table is too high, I
can't write on it, Dad. Oh,
so much
fun, the study time is over. Just a little bit of scribbling,
Dad looks at me and smiles,
Dad fixes it. My child, Dad, Dad, you have gone because of me, you are so
foolish. Dad, Dad, I have grown up, I love you so much, I am grown up, happy, I will be grateful to you for life.  Meow,
Dad follows me around, kha kha, I'm so well-behaved,
Dad! This table is too high, I can't write
on it, Dad! Oh, so much fun, all the study time is over! Just a little bit of messing around, Dad! Look at me and smile, Dad will fix my life! [Music] I love you so much! I'm running after you, Dad! I'm holding your
hand, the cat is washing it! Meow, meow, Dad follows me around,
kha kha, I'm so well-behaved, Dad!
This table is too high, I
can't write on it, Dad! Oh,
so much
fun, all the study time is over! Just a little bit of messing around, Dad!
Look at me and smile, Dad will
fix my life! I love you, Dad! So many years have passed, Dad! You've worked hard,
now I'm doing it, I'm doing it, I'm doing it, I'm doing it, Dad!
[Music]
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, just now we
enjoyed a very
sunny and meaningful opening performance about the love of
parents from the voices of singers Thy
Linh, Bao Lam, and Pham Vu, along with the talented group
CH B. Please give your...  Let us
offer our heartfelt thanks to
our artists and dancers.
Namo Vu Lan Duyen Khoi Dai Hieu Muc Kieu Lien Bodhisattva. We respectfully
address our Venerable Master, our esteemed
monks and nuns, our
distinguished guests,
and all the people of this world. Everyone in this world
has a father and a mother who gave birth to this body.
In this
Vu Lan season, a joyous festival of gratitude,
following the example of the Great Filial Piety of
Muc Kieu Lien Bodhisattva, with the
permission of our Venerable Master, the Golden Cup Club,
practicing the Six Harmonies, is organizing a
Vu Lan Filial Piety and Gratitude cultural program to
celebrate the 2023 Vu Lan Festival. This program
allows each person to express their filial
piety to their parents in
this life, as well as to their fathers and
mothers in many
past lives, thereby illuminating and
spreading the spirit of filial piety, gratitude, and repayment of the kindness of our ancestors and parents.
With this meaning, we respectfully
hope that our Venerable Master and all the people of this community will happily congratulate us.  The
program was successfully completed
in a joyful and meaningful atmosphere.
We
respectfully bow and introduce
Venerable Thich Truc Thai Minh, Vice Chairman of the
Central Committee for International Buddhism, Vice
Chairman of the Central Committee for Information and Communication of the
Vietnam Buddhist Sangha, and Abbot of
Ba Bang Pagoda. We ask the congregation to give a
big round of applause to express our
gratitude and
congratulations. Furthermore, we are honored
to have the presence of
Venerable Thich Truc Thai Minh and
Venerable Thich Truc Thai Minh from Truc Lam Phap Nhan Meditation Center
in Da Lat. These esteemed monks are also brothers of the Venerable Master. We ask the
congregation to give a big round of applause
to express our gratitude and congratulations. On behalf of the
Quoc Vang Club, we
respectfully introduce
Ms. Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan, Chairperson of the Quoc Vang Club,
and Head of the Organizing Committee of the
program. Once again, we ask the congregation to
give a big round of applause to express our
congratulations. We also respectfully
introduce the presence of the
Venerable Monks and Nuns.  We, your humble servants,
respectfully introduce and today we are
extremely happy to welcome
the esteemed elderly parents of the
monks, nuns, and Buddhist followers of Ba Vang. Please
give a big round of applause to
warmly welcome them. We
also warmly
welcome the distinguished guests, esteemed
Buddhist followers present at
today's program, and the many viewers
watching online from all over the
country and countries and
territories around the world.
Please give a big round of applause to
warmly welcome them. Ladies and gentlemen,
next
on the program, we
respectfully invite Ms. Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan, head of the
Quoc Vang Club practicing Luc Hoa Tien, to the
stage to deliver the opening speech for
today's program. We
respectfully invite
[Applause]
Ms.
[Music] [
Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Namo
Vu Lan Duyen Khoi Dai Hieu Muc Kieu Lien Bodhisattva Respectfully addressing the Venerable Master
and all the
esteemed monks and nuns  Dear elders, respected ladies and
gentlemen, parents of the monks and nuns, parents
of the Buddhist followers, esteemed
representatives and guests,
dear fellow practitioners near and far, the
Vietnamese Buddhist proverb says: "The kindness of a father is as high as Mount
Thai Duc, the virtue of a mother is as deep as the ocean. Even if one
dedicates their entire life, they cannot repay the debt of
gratitude to those who gave birth to them." Parents are the ones who give birth to their children unconditionally, risking their own lives, only hoping that their children will grow up healthy, mature, and happy. But sometimes, we, as children, are so preoccupied with the daily grind of earning a living that we
forget the love of our parents. How
fortunate we are that, through the
teachings of our master, we
have come to know the Buddha Shakyamuni, the
teacher of gods and humans, a perfect example of filial piety.
He renounced the world, attained
enlightenment, and brought the path of liberation to
guide his parents and countless beings
to the shore of happiness. The
Supreme Bodhisattva Moggallana is a holy monk and a
disciple of utmost filial piety, a prime example of filial
piety in Buddhism, for he
encouraged his relatives to offer alms to the monks and dedicate the
merit to saving his mother.  The story of Mục
Liên Thanh Đề escaping the suffering of
hunger and hell is the
origin of the Vu
Lan Festival, a sacred and
important Buddhist festival deeply rooted in the
history of the Vietnamese nation for thousands of years.
On this auspicious occasion of the Vu Lan Festival, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, practicing the Six Harmonies, is
honored to have the opportunity to organize
this evening's cultural performance by our Venerable Master and the Sangha. We express our
gratitude to our parents
in this life and many past lives, thereby
igniting the flame of filial piety and cultivating the
roots of gratitude within each of us.
Now, we respectfully bow to
our Venerable Master and the esteemed monks and nuns, and grant permission for this Vu
Lan Festival of Filial Piety to officially
begin. We respectfully wish all
Venerable Masters, wisdom, and perfect enlightenment. We also respectfully wish all the esteemed elders,
parents, and all Buddhist followers, boundless blessings, good health,
long life, and happiness.
May all distinguished guests, fellow practitioners, and their
families always be diligent, happy, and peaceful.
Nam Mô Đại Hiếu Mục Kiều Liên Bồ  Namo
Hōan-śīya Bodhisattva Maha-
śāstra. We respectfully offer our thanks to Ms. Pha
Thi Yen for her opening remarks
today, and we invite
her to be seated.
[Music]
Dear all, it
is a great
happiness and honor for all of us to
welcome a very special person to today's program. We would like to
extend our greetings to Mr. Vu Kich, the
father of our master. Although she is
elderly and frail,
she has made the effort to come here to participate in this
program. Let
us all take another moment to greet him.
Yes, we respectfully invite him to be seated. Respectfully addressing
our master, Respectfully
addressing all the venerable monks and nuns, Respectfully addressing the
esteemed guests and all the present.
The Buddha is a shining example of filial
piety. In every life he was born, he was a
filial son, helping his parents
escape the cycle of birth and death. Following the example of the
Buddha's filial piety,
our master has decided to choose the path of
great filial piety by embarking on the path of
renunciation and monastic life.  Showing filial piety to parents in
this present life and to parents in many
future lives, the master is not only a
filial son but, through both his teachings and his example, he
has awakened the filial heart in
countless generations, helping many people understand
filial piety and righteousness, and how to show filial piety to their parents in
many future lives, just as the
Buddha taught. To feel the vast filial heart
of the master, we
respectfully invite the entire audience to
turn towards the stage and watch the video
that follows.
[Applause]
Let me carry my mother's burden once, for a lifetime she has
toiled.
[Music]
When I was a baby, I was named
Hieu Minh Hieu because he gave me
the names Hieu Nghia Duc.
From a young age, he was named that way, and as I grew up, he remained that way
because he was a very filial, righteous, obedient, and easy-
going person, especially
never arguing with his parents. His grandparents also
agreed to name him Hieu. But once, when his
grandmother showed him a Buddhist scripture,
the boy was deeply moved by the
story of the king who cut off his hand to
make medicine for his father.
At that time, the King, even though he was only
8 years old, made a vow: "I will
never do anything that would bring
sorrow to my parents. I vow that if
my parents ever need medical help, I will
readily cut off my hands or
gouge out my eyes to use as medicine for them." He was
especially like that from a young age; his nature was
like that, completely different from other children. The old
woman in Hanoi often had a habit of
sticking her head up, and whenever she stuck her head up, the
monk would come and massage her head and brain. She told him to go get her a plate of flowers, and he would
go into the village to find
a plate of flowers for her to use in the temple. He was
very obedient,
but when he did something
wrong, his parents and older
siblings would tell him off, and he would listen immediately, not
arguing like other people. He deeply appreciated the
sacrifices and hardships of his parents, so the
boy always tried his best in his studies and got into a
specialized school. I remember that Tet holiday, the
student received a scholarship and immediately used the
money to buy meat.  He wanted his mother to make banh chung (traditional Vietnamese rice cakes), but
unfortunately, the train tickets were sold out, so he walked nearly
20 km home to bring the meat back for his mother. His
feet were swollen and blistered all Tet,
preventing him from going anywhere to play, but he was still happy because he had done something for his parents. The neighbors around kept saying, "How can Hieu, your son, be so stubborn? He's already in university
and still working, and he's so hardworking and
diligent." People
said, "Your parents are so lucky.
Why is Hieu so stubborn? He's so thoughtful and
considerate. His parents know the
family is struggling, but they don't dare ask for anything. From
food to clothing, everything is very simple. When they
see their
son outside, they have to grit their teeth and
hold back their love for him. They
don't understand why he would leave when he's
such a filial son. He's so good at home, and then
suddenly he says, 'If you
want to become a monk, then kill me!'"
Shocked by
her son Vu Minh Hieu's decision, the mother, weeping, gave her
final ultimatum.  The mother thought that
her son, a university lecturer with a
bright future, should marry a girl
from a respectable family, have a
happy ordinary life, and bring honor to his
ancestors. But at that time, she didn't understand that
her son, out of filial piety towards his
parents, had chosen to become a monk. Before his
son's determination, the father silently
held back his tears, but finally,
he took up his pen and signed the consent form.
Before leaving,
in front of his parents, the
son bowed and paid his respects.
Witnessing this emotional moment, the
Buddhist devotees present were moved to tears. Suddenly, it started to
rain, creating a
very touching scene at Truc Lam Zen Monastery in Da
Lat, under the guidance of Venerable
Thich Thanh Tu. The son never
forgot his parents' kindness, always yearning
to help them connect with Buddhism. Before his
ordination, the son
sent a letter to
his parents: "Dear Father, my dear brothers and sisters, I
hope you all will always strive to
believe in Buddhism and uphold its
good qualities."  My daughter Hang
wished that in this life, things come together and then fall apart. Nothing lasts
forever, so we must
diligently practice good deeds. I'm
writing this Buddhist verse for the whole family to
practice together: abandon all evil deeds, do
good deeds, and keep a pure heart. That is the Buddha's
teaching. My name is Vu Minh Hieu, Dharma name
Thuan. When I was at the temple near the temple, I
wanted to invite the monk over.
After the monk arrived, after about half a
month, I went down to the temple. I saw the
temple's state and was very sad. I saw how much my
daughter suffered, with only a few sets of clothes and no
motorbike. Although initially they didn't
want their daughter to become a monk, because of their
love for their daughter, they followed the monk
wherever he went. They just didn't
expect the path of monastic life to be so
arduous. From then until now, from a
ruin, under the dedication of Venerable Thich Chuc
Thai Minh,
Ba Vang Temple has become one of the
largest Buddhist monasteries, a place of
study for tens of thousands of Buddhist followers. The
monk's parents suddenly stopped. Many of his
children are monks and Buddhists
practicing under his guidance.  With the care and guidance of their parents, the
grandparents have also taken refuge in the Three Jewels and
regularly come to the temple to practice, fulfilling the teacher's wish
when they were still healthy. They
never miss the monthly Eight Precepts retreats at the
temple and on the
14th of each month
at home. They diligently chant scriptures and listen to
Dharma teachings, setting an example for Buddhists to
follow. The teacher hopes that, because of their
parents' devotion, they will vow to walk the
path of Buddhism for generations, taking refuge in the Three Jewels, practicing the
Buddha's teachings, and upholding the Buddha's teachings. There are
times when the teacher is ill, and he thinks he is too busy to
visit his parents. Perhaps
today will be the
last time he sees them. Sometimes, that's how it is. Therefore,
Buddhists, if your parents are still alive, you must
think of ways to repay their kindness and show filial piety immediately. He prays to the
Buddha
and the
teacher believes that whoever loves and respects their parents
will
encounter the true Dharma, persevere in the true
Dharma, and truly develop Bodhi Mind, just
like him. He loves and
respects his parents very much, and now his grandparents have
many children and grandchildren from all over, who are his
children and grandchildren, regularly visiting to
inquire about their health and care for them.  I
pray that my grandparents will always be safe and
healthy. I am very happy and very much wish to
live long and healthy lives like this so that I can
practice Buddhism. Only through practice can one find joy;
without practice, there is no joy. Practice
means making one's thoughts comfortable and
following the path of Buddhism. Buddhist practice
is learning Buddhism, correcting oneself, and learning Buddhism
always brings optimism and love of
life. For my family, my teacher is a very
special person who has become a
Buddhist monk. My teacher has created a good karmic connection for his
relatives and family to connect with the Three
Jewels, from which they learn to practice and make offerings to the Three Jewels
to receive many benefits and happiness in
life. This is a great joy and
also something that my teacher is very satisfied with.
When he became a monk, his heart longed
for his entire being to be
directed towards the Buddha, to know how to practice Buddhism, to know how to give alms, to make offerings, and to
do
good deeds. The path to Buddhahood
must definitely be the path of filial piety.
Filial piety is the heart of the Buddha. All Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, and sages must follow
this unique and special path. If
we are in this world, we must serve our parents with food and
drink.  Even with the sweet breeze and the warm embrace of cold, the
Buddha still considered filial piety to be
small. Now, because I wish to repay my
parents' great kindness, I have renounced worldly life and become a monk, practicing asceticism. The monks
at Ba
Vang Pagoda have also been imbued with filial piety, inspired by the example
of our teacher. Under his guidance, they understand the great filial piety and are
determined to cultivate it to achieve enlightenment for themselves
and bring benefit and happiness to their parents
and all sentient beings. From our
teacher's filial piety,
countless other sources of filial piety have blossomed. Our
teacher vows that wherever he is born, he will always be a
filial son; wherever he is born, he will help others become filial sons. From
that vow, countless
students at the pagoda
have become filial sons,
recognizing their mistakes, repenting to their parents, and knowing
how to repay the kindness of their
parents' upbringing.
We have abandoned worldly life,
giving up worldly desires and passions,
following the ideals taught by the Buddha to
his disciples, and learning about the virtue of filial piety
that the Buddha taught us. From
the day we began our studies, we have
known how to repay it.  We have shown so much filial piety to our parents.
We have known how to live our lives, knowing our ideals, and there
is only one
thing we must accomplish: filial
piety. I feel so much regret
for
not contacting my parents for the past two years. I don't
have anything extravagant, but I always think of my
mother, wanting to provide for her. My
greatest wish now is to inform my parents, to have our family
connected with the Three Jewels. We may
not have been able to say "I love you, parents,"
but through practical actions
every day, we care for them,
guide them to understand the Dharma, teach them to
abandon evil and do good, to take refuge in the Three Jewels, and to uphold the
precepts of Buddhism, so that they
can truly walk the path of
Dharma in this life and the next. Only then will they be free from
suffering. That is the example of the
Buddhas, sir.
[Applause] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is
truly
a video, and it is very emotional.
Through this video, we have been able to
deeply feel the filial devotion
of a father and a teacher.  Our
teacher is Venerable Thich Chuc Thai Minh, and through
this, Quang Quan, like many others,
has witnessed the tears of emotion that
fell on the cheeks of those who
watched this video. We
feel the filial piety of our teacher, and perhaps
you Buddhist followers will agree with
Quang Quan that it is
very difficult to
express in words, isn't it? Because
our teacher, wanting to repay his
parents, abandoned worldly life with its
desires and passions to
follow the noble ideals of the Buddha and
taught his disciples about
filial piety. Since following in his footsteps,
countless generations have learned to repay their
parents in this life and many
lives before. We have learned to live
with the sole ideal in
this life: to fulfill filial piety as our
teacher taught us. Continuing his aspirations, we
vow to follow his example of filial piety and
become filial children worthy of his
teachings.  Respectfully addressing our esteemed master, we respectfully pay homage to our esteemed master,
respectfully address all venerable monks and nuns, and
respectfully address the entire assembly.
From ancient times to the present day, few can compare to the exemplary figure of Lien, whose profound love and devotion
transcends all hardships, bearing the burden of filial piety on her shoulders,
hoping to one day repay her hundred-year debt of gratitude. This is the meaning of the
Vu Lan festival, a celebration of
filial piety.  From a Buddhist legend,
there is the story of Venerable Moggallana, the
most powerful disciple of Buddha
Shakyamuni, who saved his mother from the realm of hungry ghosts
by obeying the Buddha's teachings and offering sacrifices
to the Buddha and the Sangha. On the day of the
Self-Reflection ceremony, we respectfully invite the Venerable
monks and
all the congregation to come and enjoy the play "
Moggallana Saves His Mother," a reenactment of a
particularly meaningful story from over 2500 years
ago, during the time of Buddha Shakyamuni.
Please, everyone, turn your attention to the
stage and enjoy the play.
[Applause]
[Music]
The play: "Sir, where is your wife? Call her out so we can
discuss something." "Yes, yes." "
The Buddha is a revered being. Since I met
him, I have become enlightened in many ways, abandoning evil and
doing good. My mind is more peaceful and clear.
But only my wife, my wife, has
not yet been enlightened. I often invite
the Buddha to make offerings, hoping she will
have some opportunity to be saved in the
future." "Yes, sir, your wife has returned." "What is it, sir?" "
Well, tomorrow I will invite the
Buddha and the Sangha."  I've come to offer
sacrifices, madam. I instruct the servants to arrange and
prepare the offerings in a
dignified manner. Oh, what makes you happy! I always
try my best, and I know that some people have
five or seven wives, but you, because you love
me, haven't taken another wife, and you
also allow me to freely worship
my teacher. So I will serve you, making
you always happy. Alright,
let me go to the market to see if there's anything else I can buy.
Madam, please have the servants
arrange and prepare everything. Yes, sir, rest assured, I'm going now, lest I be
late. Where are you all?
Yes, madam, you called us?
We have to prepare offerings to Buddha C. Dam and his useless disciples. Quickly bring out the things the master has
prepared and display them.
Offerings, offerings, offerings all day long, without
knowing what benefit it brings. Hurry up!
Arrange them in a straight line! Are you
blind
?
How much money is it? It's not a small amount! Hurry up!
Don't you know that Buddha C.
Dam and the monks
are just mortals, without flesh and blood?  How can you
give away gifts? Only the divine beings
in the heavens can bestow blessings
upon people. Yes, ma'am, I
think what you said is absolutely right. It's just
food and clothes for people;
how can that provide protection and blessings? It must be the
divine beings in the heavens, those whom
ordinary people like us cannot see, who
have the power. They must possess bodies and souls for us to be
worthy of respect.
[Laughs] Yes,
ma'am, I see and you're right.
I think we have to kill many pigs,
chickens, goats, and fish to offer as sacrifices, like you do, so that the
divine beings will witness our prayers, right? That's right. A good
ceremony makes it easier to pray.
Our family's blessings are like this because we follow the
rituals of our teacher. My teacher said, "If you
offer sacrifices like the deputy general is doing, there will
be no blessings." Yes, ma'am,
do you have a way? Please do it quickly! There is
a way my teacher taught. If you kill the animals,
kill them right in this ceremony so that
Buddha and the monks can see them, then
they will surely abandon them.
[Laughs]  [Music]
Go, ma'am. I think your expression suggests you're
plotting something, aren't you?
You people, soil and spoil the
inside of these offerings so that
tomorrow, Buddha Kumārajīva and the monks will only
receive worthless things.
As for the other matter, I have a plan.
Just wait. You're
planning something, aren't you? I
forbid you from talking about this! Speak
to the deputy general! Otherwise, you
'll see what I'll do! Madam,
today at the market there are some
very delicious mushrooms and meat that you found and
bought for me the other day. Tomorrow you must
cook them deliciously to entertain the Buddha
and his disciples. And have you prepared the robes, cushions, and
medicine?
Look at everything I've arranged, are you
satisfied? Yes, yes, very
beautiful. And regarding the robes, check carefully to see
if there's enough. Hurry up and
be very gentle. The
owner cherishes and values ​​these items very much to offer
to the Buddha and his disciples. And
sir, I told you, tomorrow you should make offerings to
your teacher, the monk Kumārajīva.  "As for Dam and
his disciples, I also want to make offerings to
my teacher tomorrow to avoid having to prepare them for
many
days. Buddha Dam and the monks
do not kill living beings to sustain
themselves, but your offerings involve
killing living creatures like pigs, chickens,
goats, and fish for sacrifice. It can't be combined into one
ceremony.
Buddha Dam and the monks don't eat
meat, so why are you still preparing stewed meat and mushrooms
for offerings? This woman,
that meat is pure meat, I've taught
her so many times! Buddha Dam and the
monks only accept food when they don't see,
hear, or suspect the death of the animal.
When I make offerings, I also don't see,
hear, or suspect the death of the animal,
so I am also pure. So,
I'll make offerings to my teacher another time." "Come here, come
here." "
These are the items our family needs to
make offerings to Buddha Dam and his disciples." "
See if anything is missing, as I
instructed, and prepare it." "
Yes, I understand." "Father, remember, our house
in the east, we will try our best..."  The
renovations are complete and the decorations are very
beautiful, very good. If so, then move
these items over there to make the offerings to the
Buddha and the monks
more solemn. Oh, everything makes me so
happy! You and your parents and
servants should move these items to the
East side of the house. Yes, I understand.
Father, where is one of the boys? And another one?
Sir, it's almost dawn. You
still haven't gone to sleep yet? I just
woke up, so I'm going out. You go home and
rest.
[Music]
Father, it's late at night. Father, what are you complaining about?
Yesterday our family held a ceremony to offer
food to the monks.
Look, yesterday our family held a ceremony to offer food to the
monks. You know that Father's offering to the Buddha and his disciples
is a very blessed thing. Father, that's
why our family has such blessings.
And have you ever heard the Venerable Master Tan
preach that if you offer
food, drink, clothing, bedding,
or lamps to the monks, after death you
will be reborn in
heaven. And if...  If you are reborn as a human, you
will be in a place with great wealth, so I
think your dream is a
good omen. Your body is old now; in summer
you have to endure the scorching heat, in winter you have to
find ways to fight against the freezing cold. The four
seasons alternate, and you
have been constantly ill for a long time. You no longer want to live
in that realm of suffering. In
this life, you have met the Buddha and the Sangha; that
is your blessing. You
have been able to offer sacrifices to them. You
feel content,
but you still have something that worries you.
In this house, only you and I
respect the Buddha and often offer sacrifices,
but my mother doesn't believe
in it. If after you pass away, I will definitely continue to make
offerings to the
Buddhist monks and try to persuade my
mother to live a virtuous life. If I can take refuge and
become a disciple of the Buddha, that would be good, then you
can rest easy. Yes, father, rest assured,
this family tradition will be maintained. I will try my
best to keep it. It's late at night, the bones are
falling, go inside and rest.
[Music]
Please check if we have everything we brought.
Yes.  "That's all, ma'am
[music]
Mother and father passed away three
years ago. The filial piety period is over.
Now, I will take over the family business and consolidate the
stores everywhere. I think I
will be gone for about three years and then return.
This business is the result of a lifetime of
hard work by my parents. I must try my best to
continue the family business. I know that
when my father was alive, he often made offerings to the
Buddha and
his disciples, which is why our family has
such blessings. I know, Mother and
your teachers. But when my father was alive, I
promised him that after his death, I would take over the
family business and hold a feast to make offerings. The family's assets
have been clearly divided,
but now I still have a little money saved.
Mother, please stay home and try your best to hold the feast and make
offerings for me. You must promise me that so that I can be
sure I can go. Rest
assured, this is my
parents' wish, and I will definitely fulfill it.
Food, bedding, clothes, medicine—I will
provide everything you need, nothing will be missing."
[Music]
Yes, that's right, young master. Please rest assured,
although she follows a different religion, she has always shown
respect to the Buddha and the monks for
many years. Whenever it's time to offer alms to the monks,
she is always meticulous and makes all the necessary arrangements.
Yes, ma'am, yes, young
master, it's time to leave.
Yes, mother, I'm going. Mother, please take care of your health at home.
Look, what's going on? Let's go
inside and prepare the offering ceremony to the
monks. Yes, I'm going. Tomorrow, please invite the
monks here, and we will make the offering
quickly. Prepare the tables and chairs so we can
prepare the offering ceremony. The disciples of the Buddha are
coming soon.
Today I will give you a surprise.
[Music]
Greetings, gentlemen.
Our family invites
you inside so we can prepare the offering ceremony.
[Music]
Sirs, we still have some food to
prepare. Once it's ready, please wait a
moment.
Madam, I think there's the
sound of animals being slaughtered.
That's right! My family is slaughtering sheep, pigs, chickens, and
goats to cook food for the offering ceremony.
Here is food for you, gentlemen.
Look, today
our family will offer you a
truly lavish meal.
[Music] Thanh De,
Lady Duc Cu Dam, taught
that all living beings are
equal, their lives are the same. Humans always
consider life to be absolute, preserving and
protecting life at all costs.
Animals are the same; they also consider life to be
paramount. Therefore, when killed, they
cry out, struggle, and resist to protect
their lives. All living beings differ only
in their outward appearance; in
essence, they are the same. Therefore, let us
respect the fairness of life for all living beings. May the
animals, due to evil karma and evil deeds, die
today and soon be
liberated for eternity, taking refuge in the
Three Jewels, abandoning evil and doing
good. Lady Duc Cu Dam taught
that once all living beings respect the
fairness of life for each other,
we will forever be free from the calamities of war and
fire, and our hearts will be at
peace. We pray that she will soon attain enlightenment,
abandon evil and do good, and refrain from
killing.  But doing good deeds, we
bid you farewell. If
you don't accept our food today,
you'll starve to death! Anyway, the
animals have already been killed; we
killed them, you didn't, so why not
eat? The monks, disciples of the Buddha, eat to seek the
Dharma. If it weren't for the Dharma, for
their own achievement, for the benefit and blessings of sentient beings, the
monks wouldn't eat. The monks go on alms rounds
not to partake in
food, but to receive the
Dharma. My teacher taught that animals nourish
humans. How can pigs, chickens, sheep, and goats be
equal to human life? It
's truly ridiculous!
You people, I've offered you food and you
still complain! Next time, if you see me passing by
my gate, take a stick and chase
me away! If you don't eat these things, take them
inside! I'll eat them later to my heart's content!
[music]
So I've chased away the Buddha
and his
disciples! Tomorrow, prepare offerings for
me to offer to my teacher!
[music]
[music]  And
then there's the
[music]
criticizing
B
[music]
nh
strange isn't that you, La Boc, and Mrs. Thanh
De? I heard you went to do business and
now you're very rich, so you've returned to your homeland.
Who are you taking back?
La Boc, before there was no Buddha, after there was no monk. I
don't know who you're taking
back. I pay homage to my mother because when I left,
my mother held a feast and offered alms to
more than 500 monks, so that's a
meritorious deed. That's why I pay homage. Who told you that? Oh,
yesterday when you were La Boc in
the west of the city, I ran back to tell
Mrs. Thanh De. She told me to tell
the young master that while you were away
working in An Xa, she held a
full monthly feast and offered alms to the monks without
missing a single month. Oh, La Boc, then
she lied to you! When you left, your mother
at home committed evil deeds, killing
living beings like chickens, goats, and sheep to exchange for food. The monks and
servants, when they didn't see the monks coming to
beg for food, immediately chased them away. And
other sects...  When they came to your house
begging for alms, your mother
did exactly as they wished and offered them
sacrifices. That's right, that's right, the whole
city of Kha is known to everyone.
Just a few days ago, your mother
bought dozens of goats, slaughtered them, and even
invited a monk to perform a ritual offering to the gods
for days and nights. Oh, the sound of goats bleating
echoed throughout this Kha city. I did
n't hear a single one. That's
right, that's right. I saw it that way too.
What are you all making up?
Son, son, you must believe your mother. Are what
they're saying
true? When you left, your mother didn't offer
alms to the monks but killed living beings. She
knew the monks wouldn't
accept it.
Why did she still try to drive the monks away? Son, you must believe your mother. They are here, they are here.
This is your father's wish
before he died. Your mother loved your father so much
and promised you before you
left.
Why didn't she
do that? Young master, since the day
you left...  I was at home and witnessed
everything she did. Every month, before the Heavenly
Ceremony and offerings were completed, she was always the one busy
preparing everything. How could
such a thing happen? And you people are just
outsiders; how could you know what's going on
in your family? So
don't believe them.
I don't think it's all true, master. They are
just outsiders, and because they are jealous of
Lady Thanh De's wealth,
they are making up lies to sow discord between
you and Lady Thanh De.
Mother, I swear to you,
if after I leave, I
don't offer food and make offerings to the monks,
then when I return home I will immediately fall ill, and
when I die I will immediately be condemned to hell and suffer
all kinds of evil consequences. Mother, I believe you, son,
you must believe me. I have done nothing wrong
to heaven and earth, and I have done nothing
wrong to your father and you. Mother,
please come home with me.
[Music]
Too
strange,
too good, too good, I
can't give you anything to eat. Here,
everyone has their own karma; you follow your karma,
so you must suffer the consequences.  This punishment, I
cannot save you, nor can I
help you. I
myself am also suffering from karmic retribution, that's why
I am here as a jailer. Later, when my time as
jailer is over, I will be reborn as a
human.
I am
suffering so much,
so much, brother.
So, what did you do in the
mortal world before that you have to suffer like
this now? When you were
alive, I loved you very much, I often offered
sacrifices to my teacher, I was very devout. Why am I so
destitute now?
[Applause]
So, what religion did you follow before? I
know that in your time, there was a
Buddha present. Why did
n't you follow Buddhism? Since you became a jailer down
here, I have never met anyone who followed Buddhism,
always offered alms, observed the precepts, and was devout,
yet was brought down to suffer like
this.
My husband followed
Buddhism, my son followed
Buddhism, but I did not.
When I was alive,
I was allowed to kill and bring living beings to the afterlife. I drove away the monks.
I promised
my son that I would always offer alms and food, and
when I returned home, I would die. I was
seriously ill, but after a few days, I died. That's it. Now
I am suffering
so much, please save me, brother.
[Music]
Who is this Venerable Master? Why can he open the
gates of hell? This is the border of hell. It is
neither hell nor hungry ghosts.
Only those who do not believe in the Three
Jewels and commit the five heinous crimes are banished
to this hell. But he is a monk.
Why is he here? The Buddha is my teacher. I am his disciple,
named Mahamoggallana.
I came here hoping to find my mother
to repay her deep kindness.
In meditation, I observed all the
hells and realms, but I could not find
my mother anywhere.
The Buddha pointed me out that my mother
is here. So, what is your mother's name? My mother's surname was Liu, her
given name was Qingdi, and she lived in
Rajagriha. When my parents were alive, my name was Laba. After my
parents passed away, I followed the Buddha and became a monk,
named Mahamoggallana.
[Music]
Lady Qingdi belongs to the Liu family in
Rajagriha. Now, a teacher named
Mahamoggallana, a holy monk and disciple
of the Buddha, has come to find her. [
Music] Oh, Laba! Laba! My child,
save your mother! Save your mother!
Save your mother!
Mother, eat this bowl of rice to ease your pain!
[Laughter]  I'm
so hungry, so hungry!
[Applause]
Oh my child, my mother is
so poor, so deeply burdened. I
wish I could suffer in your place, but I am powerless. I
am the foremost disciple of the
Buddha, I can move mountains, build
bridges, carry people across rivers, and carry people across the river.
But now,
even my divine power is powerless against the strength of
karma. I want to keep the bowl of rice for you to eat, but I
can't. The bowl of rice has turned into burning coals.
Oh my child, save me! I
know my sins.
While I was alive, I killed
living beings to offer sacrifices, deceitfully deceived and
manipulated the Sangha.
Now I suffer extreme torment and pain. I
can't bear it anymore. Oh my child, I
will return. I beg the Buddha for guidance.
Only the Buddha can save me.
[Music]
Save me, save me!
[Applause] My
sinful daughter, Thanh
De, has repented for the evil deeds she has committed. I
beg the Buddha to have mercy and save
me.
[Applause]
[Applause] So hungry! [Music]
So
hungry!
[Music] So hungry!
[Music] So hungry! [
Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
We have arrived, greetings to all of you,
along with other merchants in the
capital. Hearing the story of Venerable Mục Kiều
Liên, we know that today, our relatives and family members from
both sides have
prepared more than ten carts of food and
provisions to organize a ceremony of offering
to the monks, so we also
feel
joyful. We are also very happy that Mrs.
Thanh Đề, while still alive, did not believe in karma,
disrespected the Three Jewels, and
drove away the monks. Fortunately, when she was in suffering, she learned about karma and the consequences of her sins. Fortunately, she was able to follow
the Buddha and now Mrs. Thanh Đề has
been saved. [
Music]
[Music]
Respectfully, to the Buddha. Following the Buddha's instructions, the
rainy season retreat has ended.
We, your relatives and family members, respectfully offer the
four necessities: food, drink, and
medicine to the Buddha and the monks during this rainy
season retreat.  At this ceremony, we humbly
request the Buddha to bless my mother with good fortune. May she be blessed with a
beautiful and prosperous future.
Any wise elder here
knows and sees this clearly. Respectfully, I, the
Buddha, confess that in the past, due to my
disbelief in the Three Jewels, I drove away the Sangha and
committed evil deeds, suffering immeasurable pain.
Thanks to my son's compassionate prayers to the Buddha, I am now
enjoying this blessing.
I repent.
Before, I was ignorant and followed heretical doctrines,
committing foolish and deluded sins. I vow to take
refuge in the
Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha for all eternity. My body, speech, and mind
will no longer commit evil. I vow to do
good deeds, sowing seeds of merit to receive blessings in this
life. I respectfully express my gratitude to all Buddhas and the Sangha. This is Mrs. Thanh De.
After the monk said to the Buddha, "
Seeing my mother's suffering in
hell, I told the Buddha that sentient beings who
live in
human form create much suffering and, after death, fall
into hell and become hungry ghosts. How
can we save our parents?"  The Buddha taught
that
the Buddha instructed Mục Liên and his
filial son to repay their
parents' kindness.
During the three-month period of the
Buddhist festival, the monks and nuns should
prepare food, drinks, fruits,
medicine, and clothing in abundance. This ritual should be performed with the full offering of food, drink, fruit, medicine, and other
necessities. The deceased should be
reborn
in a peaceful realm, following the Buddha's teachings to
escape the cycle of suffering. Furthermore, it brings
blessings to their
parents, ensuring their health and well-being in this life. The monks, both
male and female, along with kings,
princes, ministers, high officials,
and all the
people of the world, out of filial piety and profound gratitude, should prepare
offerings to the Buddhas and the Sangha. This is how they
repay the debt of gratitude for their birth, upbringing, and nurturing.
The anxiety of preserving the Dharma is what truly matters.
Upon hearing the Dharma, the four disciples of the Buddha, along with
the four groups of Buddhist followers, felt joy and rejoicing. Mục Liên and the four groups of Buddhist followers vowed with one heart to believe and practice, first to repay the debt of gratitude to their parents, and then to save all sentient beings. Namo Great Filial Piety Mục Kiều Liên Bodhisattva,
Namo Great Filial Piety Mục Kiều Liên Bodhisattva, Namo Great Filial Piety Mục Kiều Liên Bodhisattva.
[Music]
The great
assembly knows that after Mục Kiều
Liên made offerings to the Buddha and the
Sangha, his mother, Thanh Đề, escaped the realm of
hungry ghosts and was reborn as a beautiful celestial maiden in
heaven, enjoying the
happiness of heaven. This is due to the merit of
Mục Kiều Liên and his family in offering a feast
to the Buddha and the Sangha during
this rainy season retreat, thus receiving
such blessings. Thus, Mục Kiều
Liên saved his mother from the
karma of falling into the realm of hungry ghosts.
We see this is a story in
the history of Buddhism. Let the great assembly
rejoice and praise the merit of Mục Kiều
Liên. We also vow to be
filial children like him.
[Music]  [Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
The
Vu Lan
Bon Buddha, the
thick-headed monk,
Lien, saves
[Music]
Mother, the snake, evil,
the Four Masters, offerings, the three holy ones, in the past, living in this
world, not believing in karma, disrespecting the Three Jewels,
changing
us after
death, B, falling into hell, suffering pain,
C, one,
Lien, with compassion, obeying the Buddha's
teachings, the prison of Kieu Lien, Le, offering, filial piety,
not giving birth, thanks to the noble blessings,
TH, there
is hell, society
lacks blessings, life, the child, I say, filial
piety, Mieu, immediately saves
Mother, Vu Lan, we, your disciples,
offer gifts, the Great
Venerable, please accept the vow, Longevity, B, blessings,
LH, saving the world,
C, wishing for peace for
parents, C, wishing for children and
grandchildren, wishing for blessings,
B,
this child, to be
reborn, Vu Lan,
sad, Mieu, immediately saves, Vu Lan, sad,
repaying the debt of gratitude, Namo
Buddha, Namo Dharma, Namo T, Namo
Great Filial Piety, Mieu, Lien, the monk,
Vu Lan Bon, we, your disciples,
offer gifts to the Buddha, offerings, the Great
Venerable, bringing blessings, repaying
Meaningful
[Music]
[Applause]
Yes, and let's give
another big round of applause to thank
our actors for the incredibly meaningful play. And
ladies and
gentlemen, through this play, we can
see that indeed, in this world, no one
can save us except the Buddhas, and
no worldly practice can repay our
parents' kindness except the six Buddha teachings,
as exemplified by Venerable Mục Kiều Liên. Even the
most powerful disciple of the Buddha
could not save his mother from hunger and suffering,
but thanks to the merit of the Supreme Retribution
arising from the pure and virtuous
practice of the Sangha, he was able to
save his mother from falling into damnation and be reborn in heaven. We
also vow to follow the example
of the Great Filial Piety of the Great filial Mục Kiều Liên
Bodhisattva to repay the kindness of our parents and
benefit our parents and ancestors.
Once again, we would like to express our
gratitude to the playwrights and
actors who successfully performed this
play. And once again, thank you.
Let's give a big round of applause
for the play!
We especially want to express our gratitude to our homeroom
teacher, Ms. Pham Thi Yen, for guiding
us in developing the script and
performing the play,
as well as composing the meaningful song about filial piety during the Vu Lan festival.
[Applause]
Yes, once again, let's
give a big round of applause for
our actors. We respectfully
address our masters, the
Venerable Monks, and all of you present.
Our actors
are all amateurs, members of the
Three Golden Youth Club, the
Rahula Club, and also Buddhists
from our Golden Cup Club practicing the Six Harmonies.
Do you think
our actors and Buddhists are
talented? Yes, if you think so,
we Buddhists think they are very talented. Let's give an
even bigger round of applause, shall we?
Yes, thank you.
We are very grateful to the Venerable Master, the esteemed monks and nuns, and
all the
congregation. For us to be able to practice the
true Dharma and cultivate virtue
as we have today, we cannot fail to mention the
kindness of our master's parents,
who gave birth to him and
supported him on his path of renunciation and spiritual practice, enabling him to
propagate the Dharma and
help many become filial children.
In
our Golden Cup Club, besides the
young members, there are also many
older Buddhists who serve as role models
and motivations for
our diligent practice and self-cultivation.
And alongside them are the parents of our
Buddhists, who always support and create favorable
conditions for us to
practice and carry out Buddhist activities with peace of mind.
For this reason, every year, under the guidance of the
Venerable Master and the great Sangha of
Ba Vang Pagoda, and with the encouragement of the
club's leader, we organize a gift-giving ceremony to express our
gratitude to our
master's parents.  From the Venerable Monks, Nuns, and Buddhist
followers, and the elderly members of the club, so that the Buddhists
in the club can practice the virtue of showing gratitude
to the previous generation,
we respectfully invite Ms. Pham Thi
Yen, the club's chairperson, to present the gift of gratitude to the father of our
Master. We respectfully invite you,
and once again, we ask the congregation to
give a big round of applause to
express our gratitude to Mr.
Vu Kich, the father of our Master. Yes, please give a
long,
big round of applause to join in and express our
gratitude to the father of
our Master, and also to send our
heartfelt gratitude to the mother back home who is
still following us through the
online program.
[Music]
[Applause]
Please, organizers, turn the
microphone over. Yes,
ladies and gentlemen, this gift, though
not much in material terms, represents the heartfelt
gratitude of all of us.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully addressing the Venerable Master and the
Venerable Monks and Nuns, I
respectfully address the
annual  We Buddhists are very
happy that every year during the Vu Lan season, all of us
invite our
elderly parents to
Ba Vang Pagoda so that we, the Buddhists in
our club, can prepare gifts to
offer to them.
We believe that doing
something like this is perhaps the most precious thing
we have ever experienced in countless lifetimes.
This rare opportunity stems
from the fact that our parents gave
birth to and taught our teacher, who became
a filial son, and who
guided us to follow the
Buddha and the Great Filial Piety Master Mu-ka-
lien to repay our parents' kindness. Today,
tens of thousands of Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club turn our thoughts to our
parents, and we also wholeheartedly turn our thoughts to
this place where our parents gave birth to our
teacher. We offer our heartfelt
gratitude to
our parents for giving birth to our teacher, allowing us to
learn and practice filial piety.
Although the gift is small, we sincerely
hope that you, our esteemed elders, will accept
our ring. We also pray that in
many lifetimes, if you, our esteemed elders,
return to this human realm, we
believe that you will continue to give birth to
children who follow in the footsteps of the Buddha,
benefiting the multitude.
We respectfully express our gratitude to you, our esteemed elders. Once again, we respectfully
invite you to
share your thoughts with us.
Dear all Buddhist devotees in this hall
today, thanks to the guidance of the higher powers,
we have made the effort to attend this
cultural performance. Today,
I find it very meaningful
through the teachings
on both theory and practice, educating the
children and
the people in their daily lives who may
not yet grasp the concept of Virtuous Conduct, and
therefore may not be able to practice it
well. Therefore, through
today's cultural performance, I highly appreciate
and thank the school's organizing committee and the
cultural committee of
Ba Vang Temple for creating the performance, which I consider
very meaningful.  This play is meaningful and should be
popularized in several localities for
learning and implementation. It would be
excellent if this could be achieved. Finally, we
sincerely thank everyone. We respectfully
greet the elderly gentleman who
shared such
sincere and meaningful words with
us all. Once again,
we respectfully express our gratitude to the elderly gentleman and his
wife, the parents
of our teacher. We also
thank Ms. Pham The for representing the Buddhist community in
offering words of gratitude and gifts
to the elderly gentleman
and his wife. Next, we invite the group
leaders to represent the Buddhist community in presenting
gifts of gratitude to the parents of the
monks and nuns. We respectfully invite Ms.
Pham Thi Yen, the group leader, to represent
the group leaders in presenting gifts of gratitude to
the parents of the Buddhists and the
elderly Buddhists in the groups. Please
all turn your attention
to the stage to participate in the
program. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very
joyful and happy to have
today's program.  We are honored to have the
presence of our esteemed elderly parents, the fathers and mothers
of the monks and nuns of our
temple, as well as
senior Buddhists from the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club today. The mothers of these
Buddhists are also attending the program today. Let
us offer
generous applause to express our gratitude
and welcome to all the esteemed
elderly parents who have come to this program.
And here are
the gifts that the club leader and
representatives of the Buddhist community
will present on behalf of all of us
to our parents. Although these gifts may not be substantial in material value, they represent the heartfelt sentiments of all of us, conveying our kind words and beautiful intentions. We
hope that you will happily accept these
gifts from us. [
Music]
Saving time
[music]
and Dear all,
through these gifts, we all
wish to send our
best wishes to the parents of our master
and all the elderly gentlemen and ladies who are the parents of
the monks, nuns, and Buddhist followers. May you all be blessed with good health,
long life, and happiness. May you all be blessed with good health and long life.
May all the elderly Buddhist followers and
our fellow practitioners be blessed with peace in the
Bodhi Dharma of the club. May you all be able to
enter the Six Harmonies Dharma in every lifetime, diligently
practice the Bodhisattva path, and seek the supreme path.
[music]
We respectfully address our master, respectfully
address all the venerable monks and nuns, and respectfully address the entire congregation. The Golden
Nation Club and the Six Harmonies group
will continue to
deliver gifts to
elderly Buddhist followers and their parents in their
local areas. Due to circumstances,
many people could not come to the temple today,
so we will deliver the
gifts directly to them and hand them over to the
elderly Buddhist followers and their
parents.
[Applause]
This is an activity that the master  We
find it very meaningful for all
Buddhists, as children, to express their
filial piety and gratitude to
their parents. This gift, though
small, is the culmination of the love and
respect children have for their
parents. We hope all
parents will happily accept this gift.
[Applause]
[Music] [
Music] We respectfully address our Venerable Master, Venerable Monks and Nuns,
and all distinguished guests and the entire congregation. Our
parents gave us
this body, and our Venerable Master is the one who gave
us life. In the Dharma of
the Tathagata, the grace of our Venerable Master is
beyond words. Now, we respectfully
turn to our Venerable Master and pray for his presence on this occasion of the Vu Lan Festival. We respectfully invite our Venerable Master to grace the
stage so that we may
express our gratitude and appreciation to him
during this Vu
Lan Festival. We respectfully invite our
Venerable Master.
[Music]
Let's give a
big round of applause!  To offer our respects to our esteemed Master
[Applause]
[Music]
We respectfully greet you, Master
and now we respectfully invite Ms.
Pham Thi Yen, the head of the group, and representatives of the
Buddhists to offer their prayers and offerings of gratitude to our
Master. We invite the
entire congregation to rise, clasp their
hands, and solemnly turn their hearts towards the prayers
[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. We respectfully greet our Master. We, the
Buddhists, respectfully bow and offer our
prayers. We respectfully greet our
Master.
Today, the Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the Youth
Club, the La Ho La Club, and
all the Buddhists of Ba Vang Temple are
very joyful and
happy. We respectfully greet our
Master. Every year when the Vu Lan season comes, all of
us Buddhists unite and
live in filial piety. It must be said that
each of our Buddhist families is equally
joyful. Since the day we
became your disciples and you taught
us, we have practiced
according to the Buddha's teachings.  Caring for our parents, living
in harmony with our siblings, so that everyone in the
family can live in peace and happiness,
our parents also find joy in this.
Every year during the Vu Lan season, we
bring our parents here to receive the blessings and
grace from our master, who allows them to take refuge in the
Three Jewels. Each year, the temple grows
larger, and the number of Buddhists increases, so too do our
parents take refuge in the Three Jewels. We respectfully ask our master,
thanks to your compassion and filial
piety, that today
we are able to
organize this Vu Lan Filial Piety Festival and
offer gifts to our
parents. We also think that throughout countless
lifetimes in this long cycle of reincarnation,
most of us have been born
unfilial and disrespectful to our parents. However, we
also think that in some lifetimes,
we may have been filial children,
providing for and nurturing our
parents, ensuring they
lacked
nothing. Because we believe that in some
lifetimes, even if we were kings, officials, or wealthy
landowners, we would still
care for our parents.  Our mother is well-provided for,
but
despite all her care and effort,
we still exist in the cycle of rebirth, suffering
pain, and in our hearts, we still
harbor unwholesome, disrespectful, and unfilial thoughts.
We firmly believe
that our filial piety has not yet
been fully cultivated
through the truth of the Buddha, and we do not yet know how to
truly practice filial piety.
However, in this life, we are
truly fortunate. We have
become truly filial children according to the
Buddha's teachings, guiding our parents to take
refuge in the Three Jewels, providing them with support. Our
parents have heard the Buddha's teachings,
cherish the Buddha's teachings, know how to practice the
precepts, believe in cause and effect, and know how to give
generously. All that we have done to repay our parents in this life is something
we certainly could not have done in previous lives.
And all that we have done
in this life, towards our parents, towards our
mother, towards true and sublime filial piety, is
also from the filial heart of our
teacher, from whom we came to know the
Buddha. From our teacher, we came to
know the Venerable Mục Kều Liên.  Only now, Master, have we come to
understand the
profound gratitude we owe to our living parents and our past parents. The
Master's kindness and virtue towards us are
truly
immense. If it weren't for our Master, our parents in
this life would not have
benefited, nor our past parents, and
even
our future parents would not have benefited.
We believe that with our study and
practice of Buddhist teachings,
our filial piety in this life will ensure that in our next life, when
we are reborn as human beings,
we will certainly be filial children.
We are certain that
we and our parents will be bound by the Three Jewels,
never to be separated for many lifetimes,
sharing the Dharma, relying on the
Three Jewels to practice until the day we
escape the cycle of birth and
death. All the merits and
virtues we have accumulated are
due to our Master's filial devotion and devotion.
Today, during the
Vu Lan festival, we have learned to
show filial piety to our parents. We respectfully express our gratitude to our Master, who, as lay
people currently enjoying
material comforts, is the source of our blessings.  We know that our master, having renounced the world to follow the Buddha,
does not seek material possessions but only seeks to
achieve the Dharma and bestow the Dharma
upon us and all sentient beings for their benefit. However,
we humbly request that our master bear witness to us using this worldly Dharma to demonstrate that we, as lay people, are enjoying all material things. We
also ask our master to graciously
accept
this material benefit for us, so that we may benefit for many
lifetimes. Wherever we are born,
we will have
abundant material possessions to offer to our parents, and may they have the good fortune to take refuge in the Three Jewels, rely on the Three Jewels, and practice for liberation. With sincere gratitude to our master, we are grateful for all the merits our master has
accumulated over many lifetimes, so that our master may have the conditions to guide us and our
parents. We are
sincerely grateful to our
master. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]  [Music]
Yes,
we would like to thank the
headmistress and the representatives of the Buddhists for offering their
gratitude and making offerings
to the master. We invite the headmistress and the
representatives of the Buddhists to sit down. We
respectfully address the master, who has taught us that filial piety
is the foundation of virtue in this society. From
this filial piety, countless
good deeds are born for us. First,
we are filial to our parents, our teachers, and the monks and
nuns who have given us life.
Following Buddhism, we are filial to our
teachers, and at home,
we must be filial to our
parents. Now, we invite all Buddhists and the
entire congregation to pay respects to the master. Three bows, then you may
return to your positions. Yes, we
would like to invite the headmistress and the representatives of the
Buddhists. We will now sit down.
We respectfully address the master. Our
parents gave us life, but the master is
the one who gave us wisdom and life.
From the master, we have been able to
practice the
Bodhisattva path and enjoy countless good merits.
Today, the Venerable monks and nuns, with hearts full of filial piety...  We respectfully
offer our
gratitude to our Master and then
we respectfully invite all the Venerable Monks and Nuns to
offer their gratitude to our Master. We invite the
entire congregation to stand with clasped
hands and hearts turned towards the
offering. We invite the entire congregation to
stand in solemn reverence, facing our Master,
to join with
the Venerable Monks and Nuns in offering our
gratitude to our Master.
[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully address our Master. Today, on the day of the Lotus Sutra, we, the
ordained disciples, bow
before our Master and
offer our gratitude. We respectfully address our
Master.
We, your disciples, have the
good fortune to have you
ordained us into this Buddhist temple.
We understand that our existence
today,
this human life, and our entry into the Three Jewels,
is all thanks to the grace of our Master, the
Bodhisattvas, and the virtuous friends who
have lived
countless lifetimes, who have
sacrificed their lives, flesh and blood, to
support and guide us.  We have
escaped the three
evil paths, progressed to become human beings, and gradually escaped
the cycle of birth and death.
And especially in
this lifetime, we have fully attained the necessary virtues.  We are fortunate to have been given the
environment to practice the
true Dharma of the Buddha, striving towards the attainment of
Supreme Enlightenment. However, upon
reflecting on
ourselves, we see that our practice is
still
weak and has not yet reached the level our master
expected. We respectfully inform our master
that, among all acts of gratitude and
offerings, the achievement in
practice is the ultimate expression of gratitude and offering,
and only through obedience to our teachers can we
achieve enlightenment. We
also know that our master is always
dedicated to obedience and
abides in filial piety. We respectfully
inform our master that today,
during these days of the summer retreat,
we, the disciples and monks, do not know
what more to offer than to follow our
master's example of filial piety and obedience, diligently
practicing to attain enlightenment and liberation. This is our
small gift of merit to offer to the
Buddha during the Vu Lan festival of filial piety. We humbly pray that our
master will witness our
sincerity and mercifully
guide us so that we may
further cultivate our filial piety and soon achieve perfect enlightenment, thus fulfilling our duty to the
Buddha.  In the midst of the profound gratitude to my
master and all virtuous friends and teachers of
many lifetimes, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. (Snake-like creature, snake-like creature, snake-like creature) Please,
monks, be seated. Please, dear Buddhists, be
seated. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully addressing
all Venerable Monks and
Nuns, all elders, and all
Buddhists, including the
Youth Club and other clubs of Ba
Vang Pagoda, today at Ba Vang Pagoda we are holding a
cultural program for the Vu Lan Festival, a celebration of
profound gratitude.
In this program, Buddhists
offer gifts to
their parents,
and also offer gifts to the
monks
and nuns. The monks also offer
gifts, representing the merits of their practice, to their
teachers.
First of all,
I would like to express my
gratitude and appreciation for the heartfelt devotion of all the monks, nuns, and Buddhists. The
spirit of filial piety is a
guiding principle
that humanity must
uphold. Therefore, filial piety is also the essence of
Buddhism. The Buddha said, "The heart..."  Filial piety is the heart of the Buddha.
Filial piety is the practice of the
Buddha. If filial piety were to disappear,
humanity would be
destroyed. Filial piety is the center, which is why
Buddhism says it is the true nature of reality. Buddhism is
very profound, with filial piety at the heart and humanity at the beginning. That is why
Ba Vang Pagoda annually
organizes the
Vu Lan Festival to promote filial piety, filial piety
in humanity, filial piety in the
world, and filial piety in the
transcendental realm. So today, I am very
happy to see so many elderly people,
parents of the Buddhist followers of the
pagoda, and parents of the monks of the pagoda also
here to participate in this program so that
we can all review filial piety, engrave it
deeply in our hearts, and
in this life and the next, wherever we are born,
we will all be filial children,
and that is a very noble thing.
So today, first of all, to the
monks, you have made your vows and offered the
merits of your practice as a gift to
the teacher and master. The
master also hopes that all the monks will...
Those who have renounced the world must remember
their vows and persevere in their practice,
not only to save themselves but also to save others, their
parents, and countless other beings.
No matter how difficult it may be, you must remain
resolute. You have received a
great blessing. You must contemplate very carefully the Noble Truth of
Suffering. This world is truly full of suffering;
being a king is suffering, being a commoner is also
suffering. This world is imperfect, unfulfilled, full of uncertainties, calamities, misfortunes, birth, sickness, and death constantly lurking around us. We are consumed by impermanence. You must
truly understand the suffering of this world so that your
vows to renounce the world and seek
enlightenment never waver.
Remember the impermanence, and your practice will
never decline. Your master
hopes that you, my disciples, are those
who have sufficient karmic affinity and merit—a
great blessing indeed! To
be able to enter the path of cultivation
is a great blessing. Not being
bound by all the shackles of the
five desires of the world, you
must recognize, see, and
constantly contemplate this suffering of the
world. Do you understand?  Let us diligently cultivate and
contemplate the impermanence of existence, practice virtuous conduct to achieve
purity, and practice meditation and
contemplation to truly attain
wisdom, eliminate afflictions, and achieve
enlightenment, escaping the cycle of rebirth.
Our path is very clear. Only by
doing so can you become a field of
merit, repay the kindness of your
parents, and create good karma to save your
parents in this life and many lifetimes.
The master earnestly hopes that, as you have just
vowed, you will use your diligent practice and your aspiration for enlightenment and
liberation as a gift to offer to the
master. The master earnestly hopes that all of you, my
disciples, will diligently cultivate your wisdom and
vows, remembering that you must escape the
cycle of rebirth. The monks of Ba Vang Pagoda do not
place much emphasis on worldly affairs. Yes,
master, because of the burden of serving the
community, we still have to engage
with the worldly realm a little to protect the community's
practice and Buddhist work.
All of that is merely
protecting the community's practice. The master
knows that the practice...  The master's actions have been somewhat
disadvantageous, some have been affected by what is
called karmic obstacles,
but to ensure the peace and stability of the
community, you must all strive to
practice diligently, do you not let down the
master's efforts? You must cultivate your
mind with unwavering determination, be a shining example for the masses
and for Buddhists, in other words, a
moral example, as the master always says.
Monks and nuns are righteous people who
face all adversities,
righteous people who face all
obstacles to practice. You
must strive to use this
to refine your mind and vows, not fear
hardship, not be afraid of difficulties, be determined and steadfast in your
resolve, and in this life, attain
sainthood. That is what the
master most hopes for, and
the gift the master most wishes to
receive from all of you. I hope the
monks will all strive with all their might. As for the lay Buddhists,
I
hope you will fulfill your duties as lay Buddhists, showing filial piety
to your father.  Respectfully loving and
caring for one's parents, the Master has
heard many stories and
examples of filial piety from Buddhists over
the years. They
truly care for and love their parents when they understand
Buddhist teachings. They nurture and
care for their parents, even when they are old, weak, sick, or
bedridden for 5, 7, or 10 years. The
Buddhists still care for their parents without
hesitation or fear. Yes, that is
very precious, and the Master
hopes that the Buddhists will continue to strive. For example, today,
many parents have been brought to the temple to take
refuge in the Three Jewels. That is a
very precious deed, also called filial piety.
So, I hope that those of you here, who have
had the opportunity to connect with the Three Jewels, will diligently
study Buddhist teachings and
practice them in your remaining years so that when you leave
this world, you may be reborn into
noble realms, fulfilling the hopes of your children and grandchildren.
When we leave this earthly realm, we are
born into beautiful realms, and everyone
must eventually depart. But being
born into such a noble place is something we
greatly desire, and being able to encounter the Buddha's teachings is also something we greatly desire.
Furthermore, the Master hopes that the
Buddhists will protect the Three Jewels and the
Sangha so that they can practice peacefully. The Master greatly admires this. For many years, the Buddhists of Ba Vang Pagoda, especially the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, have supported the monks in many ways, allowing them to practice with peace of mind. The Master greatly praises this, and
it truly reflects the spirit from the time of the
Buddha. The ordained monks
dedicate much time to focused practice,
not being distracted by worldly affairs. Thus, the
Buddhists have shouldered a
great responsibility in preserving the Buddha's teachings and ensuring their
strong and enduring development
in this world. The Master greatly
admires this and hopes that the Buddhists will continue to
uphold and develop this duty.
This role is to be protectors of the
Three Jewels and role
models for the world.  This filial piety and
virtuous living, doing good for this life, is an
example for humanity and society to follow.
That is what the master most desires
in today's ceremony. Let
us all spread this filial piety
to everyone. That
is also the spirit of Buddhism, master.
Thank you and I wish everyone always diligently
practicing and always being
truly worthy children of Buddha. Namo Great Filial Piety Mục Kiều
Liên Bồ
[Applause]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully bow to our master. Just now, the
master has taught us all the monks, nuns, and Buddhist followers
invaluable Dharma teachings. We vow to follow the master, follow the
virtue of filial piety,
obey the master's teachings wholeheartedly, and
practice
what the master has
taught so that we
may achieve the aspirations of those who have renounced the world and become Buddhists, and fulfill the duties of a disciple of Buddha. We respectfully bow to our
master. We also respectfully wish the
master good health,
long life, and a long existence in this world for generations to come. May he manifest in future lives.
Bringing the light of the Prajna wisdom of the
Buddhas to guide us and all sentient beings in our practice to seek
Supreme Enlightenment, we respectfully request the
assembly to make a
vow: We will follow the teachings,
we will follow the teachings, we will follow the teachings,
we will follow the
teachings, we will follow the teachings, we will follow the teachings,
we will follow the teachings, we will follow the teachings, we will go forth to
protect the branch of the Dharma. Let us
stand up and go forth. The gratitude for the teachings of our master, a lifetime of wisdom, is immeasurable. We respectfully express our gratitude to our master for the profound and meaningful words of Dharma he has given us. We will engrave and practice the teachings of our
master, and to express our deep gratitude, we
now offer our
master a
spiritual gift, a song of gratitude
from all of us, a musical
piece entitled "Respectful Gratitude to Our Master." Please, the
entire assembly, rise and
sing this song together, a
spiritual gift to our master.
[Music]
[Music] Respectfully,
Master, I have now attained enlightenment, realizing the suffering
of this world, this physical body, composed of the four elements,
endures hardship and suffering. My
mind is afflicted by worries
and desires. Respectfully,
Master, I have now attained enlightenment, realizing
that suffering is caused by the nature of things. Respectfully,
Master, I have now attained
enlightenment, realizing that suffering is due to greed and attachment. Greed is overcome, and sorrow is
overcome. My fate is determined by your grace and virtue. I,
Master, am grateful to you, I am grateful to you, I am
grateful to you and all your disciples. You, Master, you are the
one who
preached the Dharma
with the Buddha, guiding us
on our path. We, your disciples, are grateful to you, we are grateful to you, we bow down in
gratitude. [Music] Respectfully, Master, I have now attained enlightenment, realizing that this world, this physical body, composed of the four elements, endures hardship and suffering. My
mind is afflicted
by worries and desires.
[Music]
Respectfully, Master, I have now attained enlightenment, realizing that suffering
is due to the nature of things.  How is Dien Ho doing? I
respectfully bow to the master, and now I dare to
suffer because of greed and attachment. Greed is overcome, and attachment is overcome.
[Music] I
respectfully bow to the master, remembering the kindness of the
one who sent me to the underworld. I express my gratitude to you, I express my gratitude to you, I express my gratitude to you,
along with the Venerable Master. You are the one who
preached the Dharma, you
saw the Buddha, you guided us, you
helped us to fight and achieve victory. We express our gratitude to you, we express our gratitude to you, we bow down in reverence. We express our gratitude to you, we express our gratitude to you, we bow down in reverence.
[Applause]
[Music]
Thank you very much, my children, thank you
very much to all the Buddhists. We are
truly a great family. Hearing the Buddha's teachings, it is truly joyful to live in
love, to share and help, and
we make the Dharma
flourish in this world to help many
more people reduce suffering and
bring peace to this world. May all of
us be diligent in our work.
We
offer our deepest gratitude to
our esteemed teacher and all the monks and nuns present. We respectfully address our teacher, the
Venerable Monks and
Nuns,
and all the distinguished guests and delegates. Our teacher's hand is like the sun of
wisdom; the wisdom of the
Buddha is the beautiful path that leads us
to peace and happiness. The
root of this path is filial piety. Filial piety
is the highest, the greatest, and the most excellent; no one
can understand it like the Buddhas,
and no one can teach sentient beings to
practice filial piety like the Buddhas. Our teacher and the
monks are those who rely on the
wisdom of the Buddhas to fulfill the
aspiration of liberation, to save sentient beings, continuing the
original aspiration of spreading the Dharma. This
is also the transmission of the light of the
Buddha's wisdom to sentient beings. Through our
teacher and the monks, we
also benefit from the light of the
Buddha's wisdom and filial piety, and
attain peace and happiness. In
today's program, we offer this prayer.  We offer our gratitude to the
Three Jewels, the Buddhas and the
Sangha, and then to our teachers in gratitude
during the season of the Lotus Sutra, the Festival of Filial Piety. We respectfully
invite the congregation to light lamps of
gratitude, to light the light of the source of
filial piety through the lamp of
gratitude. We also offer this light to our
parents, praying that they may
live long and healthy lives so that
we may have the
opportunity to walk the path of
Buddhist practice with them.
[Music]
The Dharma shines
brightly, connecting the bonds of kinship and
wisdom. The lamp of gratitude shines brightly
in the vast sky, the lamp of
gratitude shines brightly, the lamp of gratitude shines brightly,
connecting hearts with the fragrance of affection. The great bud of gratitude shines brightly, the lamp of gratitude shines brightly, we
respectfully offer up the
highest love, the
life that has been written for
us with our small hearts. We vow to be eternally grateful,
offering the lamp of gratitude, the
high love.
The person who has dedicated their life to
us.
[Music]
[Applause] [Music] [Applause
]
[Music]
[Applause]
Shimmering, shimmering, the light of the Lantern shines
brightly, connecting friendship and wisdom. The Lantern shines magically
in the vast sky, the lamp shines brightly. Shimmering,
fragrant, thoughts of
connection. Many happy hearts, hearts
returning to the endless spring.
Shimmering, shimmering, the light of the Lantern shines brightly,
sincerely and respectfully offered up. Love and compassion, the
high love of
generations, people who have been for
us with small hearts. We vow to
dedicate ourselves forever. The lamp shines brightly, the high love of all. People who have been for us for their whole lives. Yes, we respectfully offer to our master, respectfully to the Venerable Monks and Nuns. To the entire congregation, those were the lamps shining brightly, offered as a tribute to the Three Jewels, to
our master, to the Venerable Monks and Nuns, and especially to our parents. We
hope that from our master, the
seeds of filial piety will be
sown, grow strong, and spread throughout the world.
That filial piety will save the world, bringing
righteousness and goodness to
this world, as our master has taught us once
again.  We express our gratitude to our teacher and
thank our singers and actors for
bringing such a meaningful song
to this evening. We
respectfully
thank you. [Applause] We respectfully address our teacher, Venerable Monks and Nuns, and
all the congregation. We
have heard
that in this world we
can never repay the kindness of our parents.
Only when we lead our parents to the path of
liberation, so that they have faith in the Three Jewels,
know how to practice generosity, abandon greed and anger, and find
peace and happiness, can we
say that this debt has been fully repaid. To
achieve this, without our teacher, who has
ordained and cultivated the Dharma to guide and nurture
us, and without our head teacher who has encouraged and guided
us in practicing the
teacher's teachings, we could not have
done even the slightest merit, nor
could we fully repay our filial piety to our
parents. Before our teacher, we
vow to diligently cultivate
our filial piety.
We vow that in every life we ​​are born, we will be filial
children who guide and support our parents.  We dedicate ourselves
to the ocean of Buddhist teachings, assisting our parents
in their journey to liberation until they attain the
ultimate enlightenment of Bodhi.
Now, we
respectfully express our gratitude and filial piety. We respectfully celebrate the successful conclusion of the 2023 Vu Lan Festival. We respectfully thank our Venerable
Master for allowing
our National Golden Club to organize this program and for his presence and
participation.
We wish our Venerable
Master and all the esteemed monks and nuns good health, perfect enlightenment, and the
successful completion of all Buddhist endeavors. We
also extend our
deepest gratitude to the club's leader, Ms. Pham Thi Yen,
for her constant encouragement, guidance, and for
composing meaningful songs for
today's program. We
thank all the Buddhist followers for their attention and support. While there may have been some shortcomings in the
organization, we respectfully request that
our Venerable Master, the esteemed monks and nuns,
and the entire congregation be understanding and for their kind attention.
Now, we bid farewell to our Venerable
Master and all the esteemed monks and nuns as they return to their roots. We respectfully invite the
congregation to join in the
applause to bid farewell to our Venerable Master.  On behalf of the
Venerable Monks and esteemed guests, Nam
Mô Đại Hiếu Mục Kiều Liên Bồ Tát Ma Ha
Tát, may he bear great witness.